# Retraction test


## Test objective

Discover and setting parameters related to oozing/stringing defects

* The temperature is correctly fiched according to material and nozzle type.
* We are able to print mirrored pieces without stringing.
* Retraction velocity is adapted to avoid excess of material flow.

## Test objet

The 'retraction test' purpose is calibrating different parameters on our Slic3r (or similar) profile, and prevent releasing material on blanck spaces, commonly generated by two different detached parts of the piece or between two pieces separated each other.


## Generating an object for the new printer

Instructions for generating a new test object for a different printer.

* Open the 'stl' file on your slicer program.
  This file contains a piece specially designed to measure problems related with retraction on our printer.

### Generating G-Code for the test

1. Look for the different parameters listed below:

* Length
* Z Lift
* Speed
* Retraction after layer change
* Wipe on retraction
* Layer height
* Printing speed
* Travel speed

2. Try to set correctly this parameters above in your slicing program. Specific numbers will depend on your printer and printing material.
3. Change them freely until you get reasonable good results on you printed piece.
4. Be sure you are changing only one parameter each time.
5. Remember those parameters are heavily dependant on you nozzle diameter too.

## Test instructions

1. Usually we print mirrored pieces to check the stringing defects aswell. You can use Slic3r to set both pieces on the hot bed.
2. Use your SD-Card or Octoprint software in order to print 'retraction-test' G-Code.
3. Try to vary speed travel and retraction distance one by one and reprint. Those are the most important parameters related to oozing.


## Test results

Once printing is done, we will check finished pieces and the presence of filaments and segments.

1. Thin filaments in free space, probably will be related to not enough retraction.
2. Thin segments of printed layer, otherwise will be cause by to much retraction.
3. Repeat the test enough times until you get your 'ideal piece' depending on your quality goals, by adjusting your Cura/Slic3r profile.


## Retraction test trouble shooting

* Be sure you are using correct temperature for each type of material. This will be covered by 'temperature-test' file.
* Check your fans are correctly working.
* You can design you own retaction-test by using a structure of symmetric parts separated by a certain distance.
* Usefull URL in order to help you with the entire process, https://www.matterhackers.com/articles/retraction-just-say-no-to-oozing
